[MUSIC]
>> Speaker 1: So this is great when we
use the Mongo shell in the terminal to do
stuff, but obviously we won't be
using the Mongo shell in our API.
That will not be fun, right?
So we need some type of JavaScript
driver to access mongo.
There is a native driver that
we can use that will work fine,
if you just npm install a mongo
JS you get the native driver.
And it pretty much allows you to do
the same stuff we just did in this shell,
in our JavaScript files.
Which, like I said, it’s pretty easy,
but it gets even easier.
And there's really not
a lot of options here.
What we'll be using is ORM, or
I guess in a NoSQL context, an ODM.
>> Speaker 1: Everybody
know what an ORM is?
Does anybody not know what an ORM?
So ORM is just,
you can think of it as just a library
that helps us talk to the database.
>> Speaker 1: That's all it is, it's
a library in some language that will allow
you to talk to the database with
your preferred programming language.
>> Speaker 1: It's short for
object relational management?
>> Speaker 2: Mapper.
>> Speaker 1: Mapper.
There we go, yeah.
>> Speaker 1: So Mongoose is
the most popular one for Mongo, and
it's the preferred one.
It's actually, I think,
the official one now.
It's like the thing.
So Mongoose is the one
that we'll be using.
It is not made by
the people who made mongo.
It's an open, third-party ORM.
It's actually made by, who’s it made by?
Automatic.
The people who own WordPress.
So, they're the ones who made it.
And it's super awesome.
It has a really, really good API,
one of the best APIs I've seen
on any REM in JavaScript.
>> Speaker 1: So
Mongoose will abstract things away.
>> Speaker 1: It also adds supports for
things like promises.
Allows us to model our data with schemas,
cuz remember I said, I have so many typos.
Remember I said, up here,
mongo is a NoSQL database,
we don't need to model our data,
we can just throw stuff in it.
So we don't really need schemas
with mongo, as you saw,
I just threw an object in there.
I can just put anything
that I want in here.
Any properties,
if I wanted to put an array of here,
nums,
>> Speaker 1: That's fine.
It'll put it in there.
It doesn't matter, right?
It doesn't care.
Mongoose adds those features so
we can care about stuff like that.
So it'll allow us to develop
these schemas just like you would
have inside a relational database, and
allow us to establish relationships
with our models and so much more.
So if you ever use a relational
database you have different types of
relations, right?
You have one to one relationships,
one to many relationships,
many to many relationships, right,
inside a relational database,
which will determine how you store
these references on different tables.
Or even join tables in different
situations, like many to many and
stuff like that.
So we're able to do that with Mongoose.
But just note that mongo doesn't care,
as we just saw.
Is everybody following me there?
Okay.
>> Speaker 1: So here's an example of how
you connect to mongo, using Mongoose.
And it's just this simple.
You require(‘mongoose’),
after you NPM install it, and
then you call mongoose.connect, and then
you have to use this mongodb protocol,
whereas typically on the URL
you have htp or whatever.
Well when you connect to our database
it uses a different protocol, and
that's the mongodb protocol.
So, we put mongodb there, ://localhost.
You don't need a port, it doesn't
matter if you can see through the port.
And then the next is the name of
the database that you want to connect
to or create.
So, just like when we said use whatever,
if it existed it'll switch to it,
if it doesn't exist it'll just make it.
It's the same thing that's happening here.
If you give it a name to database
if it exists it'll connect to it,
if it doesn't exist it'll create it.
>> Speaker 1: And that's how you
connect to a database, that's it.
So now with that,
we're now connected to the database and
we're able to start doing queries and
doing all types of stuff.
>> Speaker 1: Any questions on that?
>> Speaker 1: So
mongoose.connect, that's it.